Your video must be approximately 3 minutes long. TAs will stop watching after 5
minutes. Not all team members need to appear in the video. Upload to YouTube (unlisted
is fine) and test the link before submitting.
Video Structure
First, your video should begin with a shot that includes your MarkUs group name and the
names of each of your team members. This could be a screen shot of a text file with this
data. It does not need to be fancy.
Divide your video into the following two parts:
Part 1 — Feature Demo (approximately 1.5 minutes): Select one feature of your
program that demonstrates the use of either pipes or sockets. Run your program live and
walk the viewer through this feature in action. Focus on showing what the feature does
from the user’s perspective—you do not need to explain how it works yet. Keep your demo
focused and do not attempt to showcase every feature of your project.
Part 2 — Code Walkthrough (approximately 1.5 minutes): Open your source code
and show the viewer exactly where the pipe or socket logic from Part 1 occurs. Walk through
the relevant code and explain, in your own words, how it works internally—for example, how
data flows between processes or over the network, how the pipe or socket is set up, and how
both ends communicate. Do not read the code line by line; instead, focus on giving a clear
conceptual explanation grounded in the actual implementation.
Tips for Staying Within Time
Write a script and read it out loud with a timer. If you are struggling to fit your video
within 3 minutes, you are most likely including too much content or repeating material from
your written report. This video should be entirely independent of your report—do
not summarize your project background, motivation, or design decisions. Jump straight into
the demo. A focused walkthrough of a single feature is much more valuable than a rushed
overview of many features.
Expectations on Video Quality
We will not be judging your video based on its production quality. Ideally, you should record
your video in a single take with little to no editing. Do not spend more than a few hours
on this in total. A simple screen recording with your webcam and microphone is perfectly
sufficient—you do not need to cut between scenes, add titles or transitions, or do anything
beyond hitting record and walking through your demo. If you make a small mistake, just
keep going; it is not worth re-recording over minor slip-ups.

2.2 Category 2 — Client–Server Application Using Sockets
We will cover sockets and select in week 10, so the challenge with selecting this category is
that you will be learning about sockets while starting work on your project.
In this category your program implements a TCP client–server application. One process
acts as the server; one or more client processes connect over the network (or over the loopback
interface for local testing).
Design requirements
• The server must handle multiple clients concurrently using a single call to select
(or poll) inside the main event loop. Threads and fork-per-client are not permitted
as the primary concurrency mechanism.
• The server must never block on a single client. Reading from or writing to any one
client must not prevent the server from servicing other clients.
• The server must handle client disconnection gracefully: close the socket, remove it
from the fd set, and free all associated resources.

Script:

[0:00 - 0:10] Opening slide
"Hi, this is Group 55047. Team members are Aditya Menon and Aeriz Conde."

[0:10 - 0:20] Scope note
"In this demo we are focusing only on our socket-based terminal flow."
"This branch is CLI-only and uses our POSIX socket implementation."
"We are running everything in tmux with CLI clients."

[0:20 - 1:30] Part 1: Feature Demo (user perspective)
"I am in the project root. First I build only the CLI targets:"

On-screen command:
make cli

"Now I launch our tmux session script:"

On-screen command:
./scripts/run_5_cli_clients.sh

"This starts one server window and several terminal client windows. Each client is a separate process connected to the same TCP server."

"I will switch between tmux windows so you can see that multiple clients are active at the same time."

"Each player registers, selects Rock/Paper/Scissors, and sends a spawn location. The server then transitions the lobby and starts rounds."

"Notice that all clients receive consistent live updates: joins, lobby state, round starts, pair outcomes, eliminations, and game over."

"So the feature we are demonstrating is concurrent multi-client gameplay over sockets, coordinated by a single server process."

[1:30 - 3:00] Part 2: Code Walkthrough (how sockets work)
"Now I will show where the socket logic from the demo is implemented."

"I will trace one concrete path: a client sends CHOICE R."

"On the client side, send_line writes a newline-delimited protocol message like CHOICE R to the TCP socket."

"In the server event loop, select marks that client socket as readable. The server reads raw bytes into that player's input buffer, then pop_line extracts one complete command at a time."

"That complete line is passed to handle_command, which validates the request and updates server state. For join flow, CHOICE and SPAWN eventually trigger maybe_admit_player."

"The server does not immediately block on send calls to every client. Instead, it queues outbound lines into per-player output buffers using queue_line."

"On later iterations, select marks sockets writable, and flush_player_output sends as much as each socket can accept."
"If one client is slow, its remaining bytes stay buffered while the server continues servicing everyone else."

"That is the key non-blocking design: reads, command handling, and writes are separated, so one client cannot freeze the whole match."

"For fan-out, server_state broadcasts updates such as JOINED, ROUND_START, PLAYER snapshots, and GAME_OVER by queueing messages for all connected players."

"Each terminal client runs pump_network in a non-blocking loop, reads available bytes, splits them into lines, and updates local UI state from those server messages."

"Disconnects are handled in the same flow: if read returns closed or write fails, the server drops that player, removes their socket from active sets, and reevaluates game state."

"So the full socket data flow is: client command -> buffered server read -> command dispatch and state update -> buffered broadcast writes -> non-blocking client receive and render."

[Optional final 5 seconds if time allows]
"Thanks for watching."
